[DTPPSDK-1092]server-side integration patterns doc (#16)
paypal-examples/paypal-sdk-server-side-integration: docs/update-from-client-side-helpers-to-server-side.md

+                   // Successful capture!
+                })
+                .catch(function (err) {
+                   // Failed capture
+                });
            },
            onError: function (err) {
              // For example, redirect to a specific error page
              window.location.href = "/your-error-page-here";
            }
        })
        .render("#paypal-button-container");
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

- What is server-side code?

  Server-side code runs securely on a web server and is typically used to communicate with APIs and Databases. Here's a list of common server-side languages used to make websites: Node.js, PHP, ASP.NET, Ruby, Java.

- What should I do if I do not have the ability to run server-side code?

  We recommend using one of PayPal's partners to host your website like Wix, GoDaddy, Shopify, and Big Commerce.

## Best Practices for JS SDK Server-Side Integrations:

1. CLIENT_SECRET should never be checked into git. We recommend passing this sensitive value to the web server at runtime as an environment variable. It's common to use a .env file that is ignored by git to load sensitive values like this secret.

> Examples:

Reviewer: Perhaps we link to each languages recommended env file library instead of showing the server start up commends with env variables.

- Node.js: https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv
- PHP: https://github.com/vlucas/phpdotenv
- Python: https://github.com/theskumar/python-dotenv

>   * Node.js: `PAYPAL_CLIENT_SECRET=ABC_123_DOE_RAY_ME node server.js` and use `process.env` to read this value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   * Python: `PAYPAL_CLIENT_SECRET=ABC_123_DOE_RAY_ME my_cool_application.py` and use `os.environ` to read this value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 2. The authorization token returned by `/v1/oauth2/token` api endpoint should never be passed to the browser. Keep this value in memory on the server-side and use it as the Authorization header for all other api calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The client credentials auth token returned by `/v1/oauth2/token` api endpoint should never be passed to the browser. Keep this value in memory on the server-side and use it as the Authorization header for all other api calls.
```

Reviewer: I think we should also add a Node.js code snippet here to provide more context with this point.

Node.js auth token example api call:

```js
const encodedClientCredentials = Buffer.from(`${client}:${secret}`).toString("base64");

const response = await fetch(`${apiBaseUrl}/v1/oauth2/token`, {
    method: "POST",
    body: "grant_type=client_credentials",
    headers: {
      Accept: "application/json",
      "Content-Type": "application/x-www-form-urlencoded",
      "Accept-Language": "en_US",
      Authorization: `Basic ${encodedClientCredentials}`,
    });
    
const data = await response.json();

// do not expose "data.access_token" to the browser
```

3. Create API endpoints to wrap the PayPal APIs. These API endpoints should include error handling.
  * for errors, reply with the response body since it contains helpful information about the error (ex: 'INSTRUMENT_DECLINED' error when capturing an order)
  * for errors, reply with the http status code since it provides value for troubleshooting purposes (ex: 4xx errors for bad user input vs 5xx errors for internal failures)
    

> 4. We recommend hosting your API endpoints on the same domain as your website. This way you do not have to setup CORS for the browser fetch() calls. If you need to use a different domain/sub-domain, we recommend setting up CORS to only be able to talk to that domain and no others.

Reviewer: I'm thinking we remove this point about CORS. It's probably in the weeds too much.
```suggestion
```

# Upgrading your Client-side integration to a Server-side integration

> PayPal is dropping support for client-side only integrations. This means that there is no longer a way to host the PayPal Buttons on a static html webpage. For example, previously we allowed merchants to use the following client-side code snippet to define an order and render the PayPal buttons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using server-side code to safely integrate the PayPal Buttons component on your e-commerce website. This page will describe how to update your client-side JavaScript code to integrate with your API endpoints in the `createOrder` and `onApprove` callbacks.
```

# Upgrading your Client-side integration to a Server-side integration

We recommend using a combination of client-side and server-side code to integrate the PayPal Buttons on your e-commerce website. If you currently have client-side only PayPal Buttons integration, this page will describe how to update your integration to the recommended approach.
<br/><br/>
> 

> > **Know before you code**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Know before you code**
```

Don't have to take this suggestion but I was wondering if this looked better as a heading. Any thoughts? I'm on the fence between the two but slightly leaning towards heading

Reviewer: I think we want this section to be less important than the "What do I need to change?" section. An h2 could work or we bold it. I'm flexible here as well.

Reviewer 2: Ah yeah that makes sense. I honestly don't have a strong opinion just an idea. I vote lets keep it as is then. So I'll resolve this comment as won't fix haha.

>  
> [How to Setup a Developer Account](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_9G722SpXQ&t=72s)
> <br/><br/>

# What do I need to change?

If you are reading this page, we expect that you already have a client-side PayPal Button integration in place.  That said, several steps are required to get you up and running with the recommended approach. 

Specifically:

1. Setup a server-side integration with the [PayPal REST API's](https://developer.paypal.com/api/rest/).

> 1. `createOrder` JavaScript callback must be changed to use your server-side to create and return an Order ID using the PayPal backend API's.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `createOrder` JavaScript callback must be changed to use your server-side to create and return an Order ID using the PayPal REST API's.
```

Just suggesting this for consistent verbiage

> 1. `onApprove` JavaScript callback must be changed to use your server-side to complete transactions using the PayPal backend API's.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `onApprove` JavaScript callback must be changed to use your server-side to complete transactions using the PayPal REST API's.
```

<br/><br/>

# 1. Setup a server-side integration with the PayPal REST API's

PayPal REST API's follow a common integration approach used by other RESTful API's out there in the world.  For PayPal, you will minimally need to do the following:

1. Setup a PayPal developer account if you have not already.

1. Create a PayPal REST application and obtain a client + secret

> 1. Use the client/secret combination to obtain an oAuth access token

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use the client + secret combination to obtain an oAuth access token
```

consistency suggestion

> 1. Use the oAuth access token to directly make REST calls to the PayPal Order API's -- which you will need for this document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use the OAuth access token to directly make REST calls to the PayPal Order API's -- which you will need for this document.
```

I think the O is capitalized at least haha someone confirm with me that I'm not crazy

<br/><br/>

# 2. Change your `createOrder()` callback

> Your current integration may likely be using the client-side order create functions.  You will need to replace this code to call your server side instead.  Examples on before and after are below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your current integration may likely be using the client-side order create functions.  You will need to replace this code to call your server instead.  Before-and-after examples are below.
```

## Current state of client-side integration behavior

With the client-side integration pattern, the SDK code would take care of calling the v2 Orders API on your behalf. It would also handle the authorization for you.

```js

> createOrder(data, actions) {

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we can use that diff feature of github here where you do the three backticks and diff like so:

```diff
function addTwoNumbers (num1, num2) {
-  return 1 + 2
+  return num1 + num2
}
```

Thoughts?

Reviewer: I do like the diff code snippets too. We originally leveraged this diff feature but ended up removing it so we could have descriptive text before each snippet.

Reviewer 2: Ah that makes sense. My overall concern then would be calling out this is the bad pattern. How about we do a `**Previous Code**` on the line above the snippet. Or something to painfully call out this is the legacy code snippet? I always get nervous about those fast copy pasters

  return actions.order.create({
    purchase_units: [
      {
          amount: {
            value: "88.44",
          },
      }],
  });
}
```
### Changes needed to migrate to using server-side integration pattern

> To simplify the integration of your e-commerce website with the PayPal v2 Orders API, you can move the order creation process to your server-side. The following steps are required to create an order on the server-side:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To update the integration of your e-commerce website with the PayPal v2 Orders API, you must move the order creation process to your server-side. The following steps are required to create an order on the server-side:
```

I think we can make this sound more firm

1. Obtain an access token to use for PayPal backend API calls. This [video tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HOkkbGSxmp4&t=113s) can walk you through the steps. 
2. Pass necessary checkout info from the browser client to your server-side API endpoint.
3. Call the PayPal Orders API from your server-side code and return the order ID in your createOrder() callback. 

## New state of client + server integration behavior

```js
createOrder: function (data, actions) {
  return (

>       // 1. send your cart info to your server side to create a PayPal Order.

Reviewer: This is minor, but I think the numbering in the code comments can be confusing. At first I thought it tied to the above list but that's not always the case. What do you think about removing them?
```suggestion
      // send your cart info to your server side to create a PayPal Order.
```

      fetch("/your-server/api/create-paypal-order", {
          method: "POST",
          body: JSON.stringify({

>           //  EXAMPLE DATA ONLY 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          //  BELOW IS EXAMPLE DATA FOR DEMONSTRATION ONLY
```

            cart: [
              {
                sku: "YOUR_PRODUCT_STOCK_KEEPING_UNIT",
                quantity: "YOUR_PRODUCT_QUANTITY",
              }],
            }),
        })
        .then((response) => response.json())

>         // 2. return the PayPal Order ID that you received from the PayPal backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // return the PayPal Order ID that you received from the PayPal backend
```

        .then((order) => order.id)
      );
}
```

**The following diagram shows the process of creating an order:**

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor Buyer
    participant M(HTML) as Merchant HTML Page
    participant M(S) as Merchant Server
    participant PP(SDK) as Paypal JS SDK
    participant PP(ORDER) as Paypal Orders API
    M(HTML)->>PP(SDK): Initialize PayPal Button
    PP(SDK)->>M(HTML): Render PayPal Button
    Buyer->>PP(SDK): Click PayPal Button (start checkout)
    PP(SDK)->>M(HTML): createOrder() callback
    M(HTML)->>M(S): Create Order
    M(S)->>PP(ORDER): POST v2/orders
    PP(ORDER)->>M(S): Order Created
    M(S)->>M(HTML): Return order ID
```

<br/><br/>

# 3. Change your `onApprove()` callback

## Current state of client-side integration behavior

> ```js

Reviewer 2: Same idea as above re the github diff code block

onApprove(data, actions) {
    return actions.order.capture()
        .then(function (orderData) {
          // Successful capture!
        })
        .catch(function (err) {
          // Failed capture
    });
}
```

### We pass the OrderID for you to the helper
On the client-side, the SDK provides an actions.orders.capture() helper for capturing the order, which takes care of passing the Order ID to the v2 Orders API capture endpoint and handling the authorization.

> ### We automatically restart the flow for INSTRUMENT_DECLINED errors

Reviewer 2: Is this section meant to be blank? Seems odd as a heading if theres no content to it

#### Changes needed to migrate to using server-side integration pattern

1. Pass the order ID to your server.

2. Update your client-side code to call actions.restart() when there's an INSTRUMENT_DECLINED error.

> use code snippet from here: https://developer.paypal.com/demo/checkout/#/pattern/server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
use code snippet from our [demo page](https://developer.paypal.com/demo/checkout/#/pattern/server)
```

## New state of client + server integration behavior

```js
onApprove: function (data, actions) {

>     // 1. Pass the PayPal Order ID to your server side where you will capture it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Pass the PayPal Order ID to your server side where you will capture it
```

  - Node.js: https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv
  - PHP: https://github.com/vlucas/phpdotenv
  - Python: https://github.com/theskumar/python-dotenv

2. The client credentials auth token returned by `/v1/oauth2/token` api endpoint should never be passed to the browser. Keep this value in memory on the server-side and use it as the Authorization header for all other api calls.  
Here's an example API call in Node.js that uses the client credentials auth token as the Authorization header for all other API calls:
```
const encodedClientCredentials = Buffer.from(`${client}:${secret}`).toString("base64");

const response = await fetch(`${apiBaseUrl}/v1/oauth2/token`, {
    method: "POST",
    body: "grant_type=client_credentials",
    headers: {
      Accept: "application/json",
      "Content-Type": "application/x-www-form-urlencoded",
      "Accept-Language": "en_US",
      Authorization: `Basic ${encodedClientCredentials}`,
    });
    
const data = await response.json();

// do not expose "data.access_token" to the browser
```

3. Create API endpoints to wrap the PayPal APIs. These API endpoints should include error handling.

>   * for errors, include the response body in the API's error response to provide helpful information about the error. For example, when capturing an order, an 'INSTRUMENT_DECLINED' error might be returned in the response body.

Reviewer 3: Looks like both "API's" and "APIs" are used throughout the doc.  I think it would be good to settle on one or the other for consistency.

  * for errors, include the HTTP status code in the API's error response to provide value for troubleshooting purposes. For example, 4xx errors might indicate bad user input, while 5xx errors might indicate internal failures.

# Frequently Asked Questions:

- What is server-side code?

>   Server-side code runs securely on a web server and is typically used to communicate with APIs and Databases. Here's a list of common server-side languages used to make websites: Node.js, PHP, ASP.NET, Ruby, Java.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Server-side code runs securely on a web server and is typically used to communicate with APIs and Databases. Common server-side languages used to make websites include Node.js, PHP, ASP.NET, Ruby, Java.
```

Again, super-nitpicky and mostly a stylistic choice.  Feel free to keep the original if you prefer!

- What should I do if I do not have the ability to run server-side code?

>   We recommend using one of PayPal's partners to host your website like Wix, GoDaddy, Shopify, and Big Commerce.

Reviewer 2: Should we make these links?

Reviewer 3: Making them links is a great idea!  Also, I think BigCommerce is branded as one word like GoDaddy
